[Hardhat] Create compile, deploy, install and config pages (#1150)
polkadot-developers/polkadot-docs: smart-contracts/dev-environments/hardhat/deploy-a-contract.md

---
title: Deploy Smart Contracts with Hardhat
description: Learn how to deploy smart contracts to Local Development Node using Hardhatand deployments with Ignition modules.
categories: Smart Contracts, Tooling
---

# Deploy a Contract using Hardhat

## Deploying to a Live Network

This guide will use the Local Development Node as the target network. Here's how to configure and deploy:

> 1. Run a [Local Development Node](/smart-contracts/dev-environments/local-dev-node.md) to run a local dev node

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Ensure you have a local development node running. Check the [Local Development Node](/smart-contracts/dev-environments/local-dev-node/){target=_blank} guide on how to run a local dev node.
```

    const PRIVATE_KEY = vars.get("PRIVATE_KEY");

    module.exports = {
      solidity: "0.8.28",
      networks: {
        polkadotHubLocal: {
          url: "http://localhost:8545",
          chainId: 1111,
          accounts: [PRIVATE_KEY]
        }
      }
    };
    ```

5. Deploy your contract using Ignition:

    ```bash
    npx hardhat ignition deploy ./ignition/modules/Lock.js --network polkadotHubLocal
    ```

## Interaction with Your Contract

Once deployed, you can create a script to interact with your contract. To do so, create a file called `scripts/interact.js` and add some logic to interact with the contract.

For example, for the default `Lock.sol` contract, you can use the following file that connects to the contract at its address and retrieves the `unlockTime`, which represents when funds can be withdrawn. The script converts this timestamp into a readable date and logs it. It then checks the contract's balance and displays it. Finally, it attempts to call the withdrawal function on the contract, but it catches and logs the error message if the withdrawal is not yet allowed (e.g., before `unlockTime`).

```javascript title="interact.js"

> --8<-- 'code/smart-contracts/dev-environments/hardhat/get-started/interact.js'

Reviewer: This script would never work since it was created for a token contract, you could use:
```
const hre = require('hardhat');

async function main() {
  // Get the contract factory
  const Lock = await hre.ethers.getContractFactory('Lock');

  // Replace with your deployed contract address
  const contractAddress = '0xc01Ee7f10EA4aF4673cFff62710E1D7792aBa8f3';

  // Attach to existing contract
  const lock = await Lock.attach(contractAddress);

  // Get signers
  const [deployer] = await hre.ethers.getSigners();

  // Read contract state
  const unlockTime = await lock.unlockTime();
  console.log(`Unlock time: ${unlockTime}`);

  const balance = await lock.owner();
  console.log(`Owner: ${balance}`);
}

main().catch((error) => {
  console.error(error);
  process.exitCode = 1;
});
```
